Switch the tutorial snippets example to be more understandable #10609 (#10624)
wagtail/wagtail: docs/getting_started/tutorial.md

somepage.get_siblings()
```

For more information, see [Page QuerySet reference](../reference/pages/queryset_reference)

### Overriding Context

With a keen eye, you may have noticed problems with the `Our blog` page:

1.  `Our blog` orders posts, which are child pages within it in chronological order. Generally blogs display content in _reverse_ chronological order.
2.  `Our blog` displays all content. You want to make sure that it displays only _published_ content.

To accomplish these, you need to do more than grab the index
page's children in the template. Instead, you want to modify the
QuerySet in the model definition. Wagtail makes this possible via
the overridable `get_context()` method.

Modify your `BlogIndexPage` model:

```python
class BlogIndexPage(Page):
    intro = RichTextField(blank=True)
    
    # add the get_context method:

>     def get_context(self, request):
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    def get_context(self, request):
```

> 
>         # Update context to include only published posts, ordered by reverse-chron

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Update context to include only published posts, ordered by reverse-chron
```

3.  `image` is a `ForeignKey` to Wagtail's built-in `Image` model, which stores the actual images. This appears in the page editor as a pop-up interface for choosing an existing image or uploading a new one. This way, you allow an image to exist in multiple galleries. This creates a many-to-many relationship between pages and images.
4.  Specifying `on_delete=models.CASCADE` on the foreign key means that deleting the image from the system also deletes the gallery entry. In other situations, it might be appropriate to leave the gallery entry in place. For example, if an "our staff" page includes a list of people with headshots, and you delete one of those photos, but prefer to leave the person in place on the page without a photo. In this case, you must set the foreign key to `blank=True, null=True, on_delete=models.SET_NULL`.
5.  Finally, adding the `InlinePanel` to `BlogPage.content_panels` makes the gallery images available on the editing interface for `BlogPage`.

> After editing your `blog/models.py`, you should see **Images** in your [Sidebar](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/how-to-guides/find-your-way-around/#the-sidebar) and a **Gallery images** field with the option to upload images and provide a caption for it in the [Edit Screen](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#edit-screen) of your blog posts. To go to the [Edit Screen](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#edit-screen) of your blog posts, follow these steps:
> 1.  Click **Pages** from your Wagtail [Sidebar](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/how-to-guides/find-your-way-around/#the-sidebar), then click **Home**
> 2.  Click the arrow located at the right-hand side of **our Blog**:
> 
> ![Our Blog page hovered on with the right-hand, which takes you to the children pages of the Our Blog page highlighted in red](../_static/images/tutorial/tutorial_12.png)
> 
> 3.  Click the title of the blog post that you want to edit.

Reviewer: By this point people have already edited their Home page, their blog index, and blog posts, so the guidance on how do edit a post is superfluous.

```suggestion
After editing your `blog/models.py`, you should see **Images** in your [Sidebar](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/how-to-guides/find-your-way-around/#the-sidebar) and a **Gallery images** field with the option to upload images and provide a caption for it in the [Edit Screen](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#edit-screen) of your blog posts.
```

!["Second Post" page, with title, date, intro, body, and a gallery of three images](../_static/images/tutorial/tutorial_6.png)

> Since your gallery images are database objects in their own right, you can 
> now query and re-use them independently of the blog post body. Now, define a `main_image` method in your `BlogPage` model, which returns the image from the first gallery item or `None` if no gallery items exist:

Reviewer: Unless there’s a reason for it let’s avoid splitting line manually, so people can set their word-wrapping when editing text to what they prefer.

```suggestion
Since your gallery images are database objects in their own right, you can  now query and re-use them independently of the blog post body. Now, define a `main_image` method in your `BlogPage` model, which returns the image from the first gallery item or `None` if no gallery items exist:
```

```python
class BlogPage(Page):
    date = models.DateField("Post date")
    intro = models.CharField(max_length=250)
    body = RichTextField(blank=True)

>     

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    ]
```

> This method is now available from your templates. Update `blog_index_page.html` to load the `wagtailimages_tag` and include the main image as a thumbnail alongside each post:

Reviewer: Good catch.

(tutorial_categories)=

### Authors

You probably want your blog posts to have authors, which is an essential feature of blogs. The way to go about this is to have a fixed list, managed by the site owner through a separate area of the [admin interface](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#admin-interface).

> First, define an `Author` model. This model isn't a page in its own right. You have to define it as a standard Django `models.Model` rather than inheriting from `Page`. Wagtail introduces the concept of **Snippets** for reusable pieces of content, but they don't exist as part of the page tree themselves. You can manage **Snippets** through the [admin interface](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#admin-interface). You can register a model as a **Snippet** by adding the `@register_snippet` decorator. Also, you can use all the fields types that you've used so far on pages on snippets too. 

Reviewer: I’d like to hear your thoughts on this but I have a feeling that "snippet" is generic enough of a term it shouldn’t be emphasized as **Snippet** every time we use it. Them not existing as part of the page tree is what makes them useful.

```suggestion
First, define an `Author` model. This model isn't a page in its own right. You have to define it as a standard Django `models.Model` rather than inheriting from `Page`. Wagtail introduces the concept of **Snippets** for reusable pieces of content which don't exist as part of the page tree themselves. You can manage snippets through the [admin interface](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#admin-interface). You can register a model as a snippet by adding the `@register_snippet` decorator. Also, you can use all the fields types that you've used so far on pages on snippets too. 
```

Author: I bold Snippets because it's a term/concept particular to Wagtail. Perhaps we should treat it like we would any other term specific to Wagtail., for instance, the Wagtail Sidebar. This means adopting the official capitalization and providing a link explaining it.

# ... Keep BlogIndexPage, BlogPage, BlogPageGalleryImage models, and then add the Author model:
@register_snippet
class Author(models.Model):
    name = models.CharField(max_length=255)
    author_image = models.ForeignKey(
        'wagtailimages.Image', null=True, blank=True,
        on_delete=models.SET_NULL, related_name='+'
    )

    panels = [
        FieldPanel('name'),
        FieldPanel('author_image'),
    ]

    def __str__(self):
        return self.name

    class Meta:
        verbose_name_plural = 'Authors'
```

```{note}
Note that you are using `panels` rather than `content_panels` here. Since snippets generally have no need for fields such as slug or publish date, the editing interface for them is not split into separate 'content' / 'promote' / 'settings' tabs. So there is no need to distinguish between 'content panels' and 'promote panels'.
```

Migrate this change by running `python manage.py makemigrations` and `python manage.py migrate`. Create a few authors through the **Snippets** area which now appears in your Wagtail [admin interface](https://guide.wagtail.org/en-latest/concepts/wagtail-interfaces/#admin-interface).

> You can now add authors to the `BlogPage` model, as a `many-to-many` field. The field type to use for this is `ParentalManyToManyField`. This field is a variation of the standard Django `ManyToManyField` that ensures the selected objects are properly associated with the page record in the revision history. It operates in a similar manner to how `ParentalKey` replaces `ForeignKey` for `one-to-many` relations. To add authors to the `BlogPage`, modify `models.py` in your blog app folder:

Reviewer: I think "many-to-many" / one-to-many doesn’t deserve being called to attention with code formatting. Otherwise edit looks gret.

```suggestion
You can now add authors to the `BlogPage` model, as a many-to-many field. The field type to use for this is `ParentalManyToManyField`. This field is a variation of the standard Django `ManyToManyField` that ensures the selected objects are properly associated with the page record in the revision history. It operates in a similar manner to how `ParentalKey` replaces `ForeignKey` for one-to-many relations. To add authors to the `BlogPage`, modify `models.py` in your blog app folder:
```

```python
# New imports added for forms and ParentalManyToManyField, and MultiFieldPanel
from django import forms
from django.db import models

from modelcluster.fields import ParentalKey, ParentalManyToManyField
from wagtail.models import Page, Orderable
from wagtail.fields import RichTextField
from wagtail.admin.panels import FieldPanel, InlinePanel, MultiFieldPanel
from wagtail.search import index
from wagtail.snippets.models import register_snippet

class BlogPage(Page):
    date = models.DateField("Post date")
    intro = models.CharField(max_length=250)
    body = RichTextField(blank=True)

    # Add this:
    authors = ParentalManyToManyField('blog.Author', blank=True)

    # ... Keep the main_image method and search_fields definition. Modify your content_panels:
    content_panels = Page.content_panels + [
        MultiFieldPanel([
            FieldPanel('date'),
            FieldPanel('authors', widget=forms.CheckboxSelectMultiple),
        ], heading="Blog information"),
        FieldPanel('intro'),
        FieldPanel('body'),
        InlinePanel('gallery_images', label="Gallery images"),
    ]
```

> In the preceding model modification, you used the `widget` keyword argument on the `FieldPanel` definition to specify a checkbox-based widget instead of the default multiple select boxes. Using the `widget` keyword argument makes your model more user-friendly. Also, you used a `MultiFieldPanel` in `content_panels` to group the `date` and `Authors` fields together for readability.

Reviewer: I think we need to be more specific: it’s the checkbox experience that’s more user-friendly, not the usage of `widget` per se nor the model in a general sence.

```suggestion
In the preceding model modification, you used the `widget` keyword argument on the `FieldPanel` definition to specify a more user-friendly checkbox-based widget instead of the default multiple select boxes. Also, you used a `MultiFieldPanel` in `content_panels` to group the `date` and `Authors` fields together for readability.
```

admin, and so that you can manipulate its contents by returning
a QuerySet from its `get_context()` method.

> Migrate this by running `python manage.py makemigrations` and then `python manage.py`. After migrating the new changes, create a new `BlogTagIndexPage` in the admin interface. To create the `BlogTagIndexPage`, follow the same process you followed in creating the `BlogIndexPage` and give it the slug "tags" on the Promote tab. You probably want to create the new `BlogTagIndexPage` Page as a child of `Homepage` and it's parallel to your Blog index page, "Our Blog". Give it the slug "tags" on the Promote tab.

Reviewer: There is some repetition here and it’s a "must" not "probably" if we want it to work like described in the tutorial.

```suggestion
Migrate this by running `python manage.py makemigrations` and then `python manage.py`. After migrating the new changes, create a new `BlogTagIndexPage` in the admin interface. To create the `BlogTagIndexPage`, follow the same process you followed in creating the `BlogIndexPage` and give it the slug "tags" on the Promote tab. This means the `BlogTagIndexPage` is a child of the home page and parallel to `Our Blog` in the admin interface.
```

{% endblock %}
```

> In the preceding `blog_tag_index_page.html` template, you're calling the built-in `latest_revision_created_at` field on the `Page`model. It's handy to know this is always available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding `blog_tag_index_page.html` template, you're calling the built-in `latest_revision_created_at` field on the `Page` model. It's handy to know this is always available.
```

> There is currently no "author" field in your `BlogPage` model, nor do you have a `Profile` model for authors. Feel free to try this as an exercise on your own.

Reviewer: This is pretty confusing since we do now have an `authors` field. Let’s remove this fully and also remove the corresponding template code:

```
              {% if blogpage.author %}
                <p>By {{ blogpage.author.profile }}</p>
              {% endif %}
```
